STAGING - 22.0.0.2 GA Blog (#2032)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2022-02-15-ga-release-post.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Enhancements to JPA persistence properties and a number of significant bug fixes in Open Liberty 22.0.0.2"
# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/ryan-storey
author_github: https://github.com/ryan-storey
seo-title: Enhancements to JPA persistence properties and a number of significant bug fixes in Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 - OpenLiberty.io

> seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as part of the Liberty configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare default JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as part of the Liberty configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.
```

> blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as part of the Liberty configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare default JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as part of the Liberty configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.
```

open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
---
= Enhancements to JPA persistence properties and a number of significant bug fixes in Open Liberty 22.0.0.2
Ryan Storey <https://github.com/ryan-storey>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as part of the Liberty configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.

Reviewer 2: minor nit but I don't think you need quotes around "default", here or elsewhere

> Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as part of the Liberty configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare default JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as part of the Liberty configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.
```

In link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] 22.0.0.2:

* <<jpa, Define JPA persistence properties at server scope>>

> View the list of fixed bugs in link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A22002+label%3A%22release+bug%22[22.0.0.2].

Reviewer 2: shouldn't this be an anchor-link to the` #bugs` section of this post? The GitHub list is already linked from line 132

[#run]
== Run your apps using 22.0.0.2

If you're using link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven], here are the coordinates:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.openliberty</groupId>
    <artifactId>openliberty-runtime</artifactId>
    <version>22.0.0.2</version>
    <type>zip</type>
</dependency>
----

Or for link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle]:

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[22.0.0.2,)'
}
----

> Or if you're using Docker:

Reviewer 2: prob not an issue for today but should the GA blog template include podman alternative to docker?

[source]
----
FROM open-liberty
----

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/downloads/[Downloads page].

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

[#jpa]
=== Define JPA persistence properties at server scope

> This new JPA enhancement adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties, to all container-managed persistence contexts, as a Liberty `server.xml` configuration.

Reviewer 2: don't need commas around the dependent clause here

This new JPA enhancement adds the ability to declare default JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as a Liberty `server.xml` configuration.

> This new JPA enhancement adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties, to all container-managed persistence contexts, as a Liberty `server.xml` configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This new JPA enhancement adds the ability to declare default JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as a Liberty `server.xml` configuration.
```

> Previously, if a persistence property needed to be set for all `persistence.xml` configuration files, a user would manually need to update all `persistence.xml` files in all applications. This could end up requiring hundreds of manual updates and/or rebuilding of applications.

Reviewer 2: suggested edit

Previously, to set persistence property for all `persistence.xml` configuration files, you had to update each `persistence.xml` file in all applications.

> Previously, if a persistence property needed to be set for all `persistence.xml` configuration files, a user would manually need to update all `persistence.xml` files in all applications. This could end up requiring hundreds of manual updates and/or rebuilding of applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, to set persistence property for all `persistence.xml` configuration files, you had to update each `persistence.xml` file in all applications. This could end up requiring hundreds of manual updates and/or rebuilding of applications.
```

> With this enhancement, users can specify persistence properties, in the `server.xml`, that will propagate to all container-managed persistence units for applications installed on that server.

Reviewer 2: With this enhancement, you can specify persistence properties in the `server.xml` file that will propagate to all container-managed persistence units for all applications installed on that server.

> With this enhancement, users can specify persistence properties, in the `server.xml`, that will propagate to all container-managed persistence units for applications installed on that server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this enhancement, you can specify persistence properties in the `server.xml` file that will propagate to all container-managed persistence units for all applications installed on that server.
```

> In order to start using the new feature, users need only add the new `<defaultProperties>` configuration to their `<jpa>` configuration, in `server.xml`, along with the persistence properties that they want to apply to all container-managed persistence units:

Reviewer 2: suggested edit

To start using the new feature, add the new `defaultProperties` element to the `jpa` element configuration in your `server.xml` file. Use this element to specify the persistence properties that you want to apply to all container-managed persistence units:

> In order to start using the new feature, users need only add the new `<defaultProperties>` configuration to their `<jpa>` configuration, in `server.xml`, along with the persistence properties that they want to apply to all container-managed persistence units:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start using the new feature, add the new `defaultProperties` element to the `jpa` element configuration in your `server.xml` file. Use this element to specify the persistence properties that you want to apply to all container-managed persistence units:
```

*Example 1:*

[source, xml]
----
<server>
    <featureManager>
        <feature>persistenceContainer-3.0</feature>
    </featureManager>

    <jpa defaultPersistenceProvider="org.hibernate.jpa.HibernatePersistenceProvider">
        <defaultProperties>
            <property name="javax.persistence.lock.timeout" value="4000"/>
            <property name="hibernate.dialect" value="org.hibernate.dialect.Oracle12cDialect"/>
        </defaultProperties>
    </jpa>
</server>
----

*Example 2:*

[source, xml]
----
<server>
    <featureManager>
        <feature>jpa-2.1</feature>
    </featureManager>

    <jpa>
        <defaultProperties>
            <property name="javax.persistence.lock.timeout" value="12345"/>
            <property name="eclipselink.cache.shared.default" value="false"/>
        </defaultProperties>
    </jpa>
</server>
----

*Technical description*

> These `defaultProperties`, integration-level persistence properties will be supplied to the persistence provider specified when the `PersistenceProvider.createContainerEntityManagerFactory` method is called by the JPA Container.

Reviewer 2: don't need a comma

These `defaultProperties` integration-level persistence properties will be supplied to the persistence provider specified when the `PersistenceProvider.createContainerEntityManagerFactory` method is called by the JPA Container.

> These `defaultProperties`, integration-level persistence properties will be supplied to the persistence provider specified when the `PersistenceProvider.createContainerEntityManagerFactory` method is called by the JPA Container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These `defaultProperties` integration-level persistence properties will be supplied to the persistence provider specified when the `PersistenceProvider.createContainerEntityManagerFactory` method is called by the JPA Container.
```

According to the JPA specification (3.4.4.3):
[source]
----
If the same property or hint is specified more than once, the following order of overriding applies, in order of decreasing precedence:

* argument to method of EntityManager, Query, or TypedQuery interface
* specification to NamedQuery (annotation or XML)
* argument to createEntityManagerFactory method
* specification in persistence.xml
----

> This means these new `defaultProperties` persistence property values will override the properties specified in persistence.xml with the same name. However, property values specified through PersistenceContext annotation, or the `persistence-context-ref` deployment descriptor element, or `Query Hints` property will override these `defaultProperties`.

Reviewer 2: this could be misread- unless I'm misreading it :) 

This means these new `defaultProperties` persistence property values will override the properties specified in persistence.xml with the same name.
-->
This means these new `defaultProperties` persistence property values will override any properties with the same name that are specified in a  `persistence.xml` file .

Reviewer: @dmuelle To me, both of these are the same,  so I'll differ to your suggestion.
```suggestion
This means these new `defaultProperties` persistence property values will override any properties with the same name that are specified in a `persistence.xml` file. However, property values specified through PersistenceContext annotation, or the `persistence-context-ref` deployment descriptor element, or `Query Hints` property will override these `defaultProperties`.
```

   
For more information check out the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/15979[GitHub issue] for this feature.

[#bugs]
== Notable bugs fixed in this release

We’ve spent some time fixing bugs. The following sections describe just some of the issues resolved in this release. If you’re interested, here’s the  link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A22002+label%3A%22release+bug%22[full list of bugs fixed in 22.0.0.2].

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/19545[OpenIdConnectClient cookies not getting deleted after logout]
+
Previously, OpenID Connect nonce cookies could accumulate over multiple logins and not be cleared after logout. Instead, we would expect all cookies to be cleared after logout or on next login instead of accumulating. This issue was caused by not using the correct cookie name when clearing the nonce cookie and has now been fixed.

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/19831[The output of ./wlp/bin/productInfo featureInfo missing new lines]
+

> Previously, the output of `./wlp/bin/productInfo featureInfo` was missing new line characters.

Reviewer 3: Was _only_ broken for a single release, 22.0.0.1, not before that
```suggestion
In Open Liberty 22.0.0.1, the output of `./wlp/bin/productInfo featureInfo` was missing new line characters.
```

For example:
+
[source]
----
acmeCA-2.0adminCenter-1.0appClientSupport-1.0appSecurity-1.0appSecurity-2.0appSecurity-3.0appSecurityClient-1.0audit-1.0batch-1.0batchManagement-1.0beanValidation-1.1beanValidation-2.0bells-1.0cdi-1.2cdi-2.0cloudant-1.0concurrent-1.0constra ...
----
+
There are now line breaks between each of the feature names, as shown below:
+
[source]
----
acmeCA-2.0
adminCenter-1.0
appClientSupport-1.0
appSecurity-1.0
appSecurity-2.0
appSecurity-3.0
appSecurityClient-1.0
...
----

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/19860[Updating MicroProfile versions on server.xml causes issues with install manager]
+

> Previously, updating to MicroProfile 5.0 in the `server.xml` and `pom.xml` would cause issues with the install manager. After resolving the features which are needed, the `RepositoryResolver` has to create lists of which features to install. There's a list of everything needed for each requested feature and one for each auto-feature. When creating the install lists, it traversed the dependencies but stopped traversing when it founds a dependency which was installed. If `distributedMap-1.0` is installed but `distributedMapInternal-1.0` is not, it stops traversing dependencies when it hits `distributedMap-1.0` and `distributedMapInternal-1.0` is not added to the list. This bug was fixed by tracing down the entire dependency tree, building the list and finally removing any features which are already installed.

Reviewer 4: This doesn't really describe what the issue was. I'll rewrite it tomorrow morning.

Reviewer 4: Also, some scenarios will still be impacted by https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/19991 which will be fixed in the next release - should that be mentioned here?

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/19860[Updating MicroProfile versions on server.xml causes issues with install manager]
> +
> Previously, updating to MicroProfile 5.0 in the `server.xml` and `pom.xml` would cause issues with the install manager. After resolving the features which are needed, the `RepositoryResolver` has to create lists of which features to install. There's a list of everything needed for each requested feature and one for each auto-feature. When creating the install lists, it traversed the dependencies but stopped traversing when it founds a dependency which was installed. If `distributedMap-1.0` is installed but `distributedMapInternal-1.0` is not, it stops traversing dependencies when it hits `distributedMap-1.0` and `distributedMapInternal-1.0` is not added to the list. This bug was fixed by tracing down the entire dependency tree, building the list and finally removing any features which are already installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
layout: post

> title: "Changes to JPA persistence properties and a number of significant bug fixes in Open Liberty 22.0.0.2"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Enhancements to JPA persistence properties and a number of significant bug fixes in Open Liberty 22.0.0.2"
```

# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/ryan-storey
author_github: https://github.com/ryan-storey
seo-title: Enhancements to JPA persistence properties and a number of significant bug fixes in Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 - OpenLiberty.io

> seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts, as a Liberty server.xml configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as part of the Liberty configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.
```

> blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts, as a Liberty server.xml configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as part of the Liberty configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.
```

open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
---
= Enhancements to JPA persistence properties and a number of significant bug fixes in Open Liberty 22.0.0.2
Ryan Storey <https://github.com/ryan-storey>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts, as a Liberty server.xml configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open Liberty 22.0.0.2 adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties to all container-managed persistence contexts as part of the Liberty configuration. This release also provides a number of significant bug fixes.
```

* argument to method of EntityManager, Query, or TypedQuery interface
* specification to NamedQuery (annotation or XML)
* argument to createEntityManagerFactory method
* specification in persistence.xml
----

This means these new `defaultProperties` persistence property values will override the properties specified in persistence.xml with the same name. However, property values specified through PersistenceContext annotation, or the `persistence-context-ref` deployment descriptor element, or `Query Hints` property will override these `defaultProperties`.
   
For more information check out the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/15979[GitHub issue] for this feature.

[#bugs]
== Notable bugs fixed in this release

We’ve spent some time fixing bugs. The following sections describe just some of the issues resolved in this release. If you’re interested, here’s the  link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A22002+label%3A%22release+bug%22[full list of bugs fixed in 22.0.0.2].

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/19545[OpenIdConnectClient cookies not getting deleted after logout]
+

> Previously, OpenId related cookies were accumulating upon multiple logins which were being used and not being cleared after logout. Instead, we would expect all cookies to be cleared after logout or on next login, instead of accumulating. This issue was caused by incomplete logic for validating SSO cookies in some flows and has now been fixed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Previously, OpenID Connect nonce cookies could accumulate over multiple logins and not be cleared after logout. Instead, we would expect all cookies to be cleared after logout or on next login instead of accumulating. This issue was caused by not using the correct cookie name when clearing the nonce cookie and has now been fixed.
```

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/19831[The output of ./wlp/bin/productInfo featureInfo missing new lines]
+
Previously, the output of `./wlp/bin/productInfo featureInfo` was missing new line characters.
For example:
+
[source]
----
acmeCA-2.0adminCenter-1.0appClientSupport-1.0appSecurity-1.0appSecurity-2.0appSecurity-3.0appSecurityClient-1.0audit-1.0batch-1.0batchManagement-1.0beanValidation-1.1beanValidation-2.0bells-1.0cdi-1.2cdi-2.0cloudant-1.0concurrent-1.0constra ...
----
+
There are now line breaks between each of the feature names, as shown below:
+
[source]
----
acmeCA-2.0
adminCenter-1.0
appClientSupport-1.0
appSecurity-1.0
appSecurity-2.0
appSecurity-3.0
appSecurityClient-1.0
...
----

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/18941[NullPointerException in JSP after upgrade]

Reviewer: lets actually move this defect to the bottom

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/19860[Updating MicroProfile versions on server.xml causes issues with install manager]
+
Previously, updating to MicroProfile 5.0 in the `server.xml` and `pom.xml` would cause issues with the install manager. After resolving the features which are needed, the `RepositoryResolver` has to create lists of which features to install. There's a list of everything needed for each requested feature and one for each auto-feature. When creating the install lists, it traversed the dependencies but stopped traversing when it founds a dependency which was installed. If `distributedMap-1.0` is installed but `distributedMapInternal-1.0` is not, it stops traversing dependencies when it hits `distributedMap-1.0` and `distributedMapInternal-1.0` is not added to the list. This bug was fixed by tracing down the entire dependency tree, building the list and finally removing any features which are already installed.

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/19826[MP Fault Tolerance annotations at the class level of a Rest Client interface are ignored]
+

> A bug was discovered which led to MP Fault Tolerance annotations to be ignored when at the class level of a Rest Client interface. However it would be picked up if annotated at method level. This issue was fixed by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A bug was discovered which led to MP Fault Tolerance annotations to be ignored when annotated at the class level of a Rest Client interface. However it would be picked up if annotated at method level. This issue was fixed by updating the rest client builder to check for fault tolerance annotations on the interface as well as on the method when deciding whether to add the `@FaultTolerance` annotation.
```

> updating the rest client builder to check for fault tolerance annotations on the interface as well as on the method when deciding whether to add the `@FaultTolerance` annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
